Evan Khoo
10.11.25
Abstraction - Articulation

Explain the meaning of Abstraction:

Abstraction in computer science is very similar to the idea of Abstraction
concepts in which we use metaphors or analogies to describe concepts that are
not physical or easy to observe and understand. Abstraction is the same thing
just in code. We take very complicated code that is difficult to obersve and
understand and use a stand in analogy for that code in the form of simple UI's
that can easily be understand and utilized. Calling a function named 
DoThisComplicatedThing() is much easier than understanding everything that the
function does and utilizing the actual function content in your own program.


Highlight a benefit of Abstraction:

Understanding things is difficult and I would much rather use something that 
has been broken down to the point where I can easily and efficiently 
incoporate it into what every project I am working on rather than taking the 
time to understand every part of how every single thing works. It is an 
effective tool for compartimentalizing and using just the pieces you need to
use without the need to understand how it all works in a larger more detailed
picture. Its about using without having to worry about the Hows or the Whys
which allows better project productivity.

Provide an application of Abstraction:

I for one do not know how my kitchen sink works. I know how to work the 
kitchen sink, I pull up on the faucet handle and water comes out, but I do not
understand how the faucet itself gets water to pour out into my sink. This is
abstraction. I can use, and use effectively, without understanding the Hows
and Whys of the working mechanisms of what I am using. This is abstraction and
it is used everywhere in our daily lives, often utilized by ourselves without
ever defining the terms.

Use a code example of Abstraction from the program you wrote:

In my Journal program, within my main program I call the Menu class. That is 
pretty much all I do and the rest of the program works to create a nice 
Journal for me to continue not to use because I never use a journal no matter 
how much I try to convince myself to do so. However, despite seeing the Menu
class call you do not see how that class call works, how the Meny runs, creates
files, saves text and displays it for your viewing pleasure. All of that is 
hidden from view. All you see is the Menu class call and a nice little UI that
allows you to interact with my program in predictable and safe ways.