Evan Khoo
11.08.25
Inheritance - Articulation

Explain the meaning of Inheritance

Inheritance is a bit tricky to explain as it is naturally very intuitive.
Think of how a biological child inherits traits from their parents, from 
physical traits such as height, eye or hair color, inheritance in programming
is no different. You define a class and then assign or create child classes 
that pull or inherit certain aspects from their parent class. If a class has
certain behaviors, any of their children will be able to inherit and utilize
such behaviors as well (if the protection level allows it). Same can be 
said for functions, a child can use what a parent has created, not always
vice versa however.

Highlight a benefit of Inheritance

Inheritance is all about eliminating redundancy. If several classes all share
similar behaviors, characteristics or functions, then having a parent class 
that all those closely related classes could all pull from would eliminate
the code that they would all inevitably share anyways.

Provide an application of Inheritance

For instance, you have a fleet of vehicles and want to ensure that you can
access and determine what each of those vehicles are so that you can properly
use them and maintain them. You have trucks, semi trucks, cars, vans, etc.
Instead of creating individual classes with all the same behaviors, as they
all require oil, have engines, tires, color, make, model, year, etc. You can
create a parent class called vehicle with all of those behaviors then have
each vehicle type index into that parent class to reduce redundancy and 
increase efficiency.

Use a code example of Inheritance from the program you wrote

In the code I wrote for our activity creator, I had a parent class called 
activty, and 3 other specific activities that inherited the behaviors from the
activity class. Breathing, reflection and listing all shared behaviors and as
such I just consolidated those behaviors in the parent class of activity so 
they could all access those behaviors through that class.

example: 

public class Activity
{

    protected string _name;
    protected string _description;
    protected int _duration;

    public Activity(string name, string desc, int duration)
    {
        _name = name;
        _description = desc;
        _duration = duration;
    }
    ...
}

public class Breathing : Activity
{
    public Breathing() : 
    base("Breathing Activity", "This activity will help you relax by " +
    "walking you through breathing in and out slowly. Clear your mind and " +
    "focuson your breathing.", 0)
    {

    }
    ...
}
