Evan Khoo
09.27.25
Version Control - Articulate

1). Explain the meaning of Version Control

    Version Control, put in the most simple way is a method of controlling 
    the version of the code that you are working on or with. Projects are 
    always growing and changing especially those that include code and 
    Version Control is a tool that allows programmers to record each 
    individual change and version of their code and projects as they continue
    to grow and change. From being able to see the very beginning of the 
    thought that went into the project all the way to the finished product,
    Version Control is a fantastic way of keep track and organizing all your
    work and changes.

2). Highligh a benefit of Version Control

    Version Control stands in the nearly completely beneficial brackets of 
    productivity and efficiency. It allows easy organization of thought and 
    work across several projects and related files. It allows for easy 
    reference if the need to go back and look at previous thoughts or ideas 
    that helped shaped the most current version of a project, but most of all
    Version Control allows for easy sharing between inviduals and company
    entities all working on the same or related projects. This kind of seemless
    ability to coherently bring together the work of legion is what makes 
    Version Control so incredibly powerful. No matter how far apart, what 
    devices, or what kind of time changes there are, everybody is able to 
    access, work with, make changes and update projects and have all that 
    information recorded and organized neatly for everyones viewing pleasure.

3). Provide an application of Version Control. This means, provide an example
of how Version Control could be used.

    I am working on a website, I am responsible for the html while my teamate
    are working on the css and another is focusing on the js. We are all busy
    and far apart so we are not able to work on the project together 
    simultaneously. I can work on the html in spurts or designated times and 
    when I finish what I was working on in a given period, I can write 
    comments on what I did and what I hope the others in my team will be able
    to accomplish with my changes. I can then upload that code to the Version
    Control. My teamates will be able to see the previous html that I had 
    written and the new updates that I had added to the html file. They will
    be able to see my comments and my vision for the project and proceed to 
    make their own changes to project as they see fit and keep me updated at
    the same time. In this scenario everybody is able to work coherently
    together despite any physically limiting factors.

4). Show a command used in Version Control (for example a git command).

    git init
    git add .
    git commit -m "Updates on changes made and thoughts"

    These commands show the creation of a local git repository which you 
    can think of as a safe or vault filled with filing cabinets. The git add
    command is how we add a file to a filing cabinet that is about to be added
    to the vault. The git commit command tha follows adds a little message of
    why we are adding that filing cabinet and its purpose before storing 
    the cabinet safely in the vault for authorized users to acces and search
    through at a later date.